# rcgc
PhD Thesis - RC/GC: Developing Tools for the Remote Control of Genetic Circuits

Stored here: .dna files with sequences for genetic circuits, PDF of thesis, slides from presentations

Abstract:
With  the  advent  of  industrial  biotechnology,  we  are  able  to  use  microbes  to  produce  myriad  different  valuable compounds with a range of useful applications. These may be drug compounds, flavourings preservativesor many others.With contemporary synthetic biology approaches we are able to bring together enzymes from a variety of different genomic contexts and build pathways that don’t yet exist in nature. This naturally proposes an increase in complexity in pathway design and function, that will require more complex methods to regulate and control.One way to achieve this is using magnetic fields. Physical stimuli like this hold many advantages over the chemical induction methods used contemporarily.They require only initial purchase of equipment to deliver the stimulus and  no  continual  repurchase  of  a  chemical.  Every  cell couldbe  reached  simultaneously using  physical  stimuli, promoting  metabolic  synchronicity.  There  isalsono risk  ofsome  cells  sequestering  chemical  inducers, leaving some cells experiencing greater levels of induction, and others none at all.A  magnetic  stimulus  could  penetrate  an  entire  culture  and  stimulate  each  cell  simultaneously  and  repeatedly. Magnetic nanoparticles when placed in oscillating magnetic fields have their magnetic dipoles forcibly switched to align with oscillations. At high frequencymagnetic oscillations, this causes the MNP to lose some energy as heat. By conjugating magnetic nanoparticles with temperature sensitive proteins it may be possible to produce stimulus of specific genetic elements with hitherto unseen precision.To achieve this, microbes that must beequipped with two things –a magnetic “aerial” module which can receive the magnetic stimulus, and genetically encoded heat-sensitive apparatus thatresponds to changes in temperature induced by the magnetic field.This thesis has surveyed the potential for Pd nanoparticles to perform the role of a magnetic aerial, and heterologous gene expression with genes from magnetotactic bacterial genomesto produce magnetic material de novo.In parallel it has used contemporary synthetic biology approaches to produce genetic programs that respond to temperature changes, using the genes tlpA, mogR and gmaR. With mogRand gmaRbeing new additions to the pantheon of genetic elements used in synthetic gene circuits.
